---
layout: post
title: "Not Rolfe- Excerpt"
image: ./../images/tobacco_sketch.jpg
share: false
tags:
  - Writing
---
<h3>This is an excerpt of a short story that I am working on about the life of one Johana Rolfe.</h3>

**[July 17, 1608]**
<p>
    An orange heat cascaded down upon the townsfolk of Barcelona. The market square, usually chipper with activity, was sparse as citizens tried to escape the sun’s wrath. “I’d look suspicious wearing heavy clothing in these temperatures. I need some other way to conceal my identity,” Johana quietly explained to her business partner Indigo. “The meeting is tomorrow at mid-day, so we need to figure this out fast.” Indigo agreed, “We look completely like foreigners.” Johana pulled down her long-brimmed hat after noticing a merchant looking their way, “Shit, he’s coming over.” The merchant sauntered over through the heat pulling along with him a small wagon of goods. “Hola!” he shouted at the duo who quickly began to turn. He wasn’t going to let them get away however, foreigners meant sales. He picked up his pace, “Estoy hablando a ti, con las gafas!” Johana’s good nature insisted on giving this poor man at least some attention, but Indigo quickly pulled her close, “We can’t risk being recognized by anyone. Let’s go.” The two hastily slipped away into an alley way. “Don’t forget why we are here,” Indigo scolded Johana. “To get rich.” She said in a voice mocking Indigo’s. He slid down the wall to take rest, sitting atop some hay, “Yeah that’s right to get rich. Don’t act like you would be willing to live in London for the rest of your life. You have naught a family, nor a friend there. In fact, you barely have a roof to sleep under.” “Well that is because you convinced me to sell everything I own for this ridiculous plan. Whatever the case may be, we just need to ensure everything goes smoothly. I shan’t die in Spain of all places,” She concluded, fanning her self with the large hat. “This heat is absurd.”
</p>
<p>
	The Spanish king Phillip the Third proclaimed in 1603 that selling Tobacco seeds to foreigners was punishable by death. The Tobacco trade had taken Europe by storm in the latter half of the 16th century and protecting the Spanish Monopoly was crucial to resurrecting the slowly failing economy of the Iberian Peninsula. There had been 72 hangings in this year alone, but Johana and Indigo were determined to get their hands on the valuable seeds. What the two didn’t know was that Barcelona had recently gained a new Governor, Senor Tomilla, who was painfully addicted to Tobacco. His addiction contributed to his greed and gluttony over the new crop from the Americas. Thusly, he increased security to the ports and markets of the city tenfold. And he personally would walk through the docks checking for “vile Englishmen” as every boat left the harbor. Of the 72 hangings, 48 were in Barcelona- at the hands of Tomilla. Tobacco, a drug that could cause death at every stage of its existence, would change the world and Johana’s life, forevermore.
</p>

**[July 18, 1608]**
<p>
	They had learned through friends and reconnaissance, about a shipment of Tobacco and Tobacco seeds from Havana to Senor Tomilla’s personal residence. This shipment, was their target.
</p>
<p>
	Johana and Indigo wear Spanish dock worker’s garb, that they stole from ladies at the sea doing their family’s laundry that morning. To conceal the rest of their bodies they simply covered themselves heavily in dirt. They looked not unlike the beggars that roamed the streets, except for their shiny sharpened swords at their hips. They approached the market square carrying large woven baskets in front of them, to further hide themselves. Indigo walked 20 paced behind Johana using his height to peer over the basket and ensure that no guardsmen were around. They approached the end of the market that opened to the large dockyard and the sea. Indigo moved quickly into position behind a short cobblestone pillar and watched carefully for the signal. Johana continued to walk forward and listened to the conversations around her, waiting to hear of Tobacco shipments. “Aqui, Aqui!” “Derecho- HOY Cuidado con el Tobacco!”
    Johana’s ears pricked up. About 15 meters north east of her were mules being unloaded from a ship. They tiptoed down a narrow wooden bridge from the boat’s hull to the dock below. The large sacks on their back were covered with blankets to obstruct their contents, but Johana could see a small trail of green behind them. There it was. She continued to walk forward, holding the basket well in front of her face. She could hardly see now but she could still hear the specific dock workers. Indigo saw this signal of the raised basket and moved around the other direction heading toward the boat and the mules. Johana continued to walk and walked straight into a mule! She made a huge commotion flailing her arms and tossing the basket way into the sky before falling back with a loud “AHHHH.” The guards that were initially walking alongside the beasts came to see the commotion. As Johana made a scene of standing up she pulled on one mule’s tail, as if it would help her up. The mule kicked up in pain! It stood on its hind legs and let out a whiney like it had just been touched by hot coals. This loud cry caused the other mules to stir up in confusion and all at once they began running. The flimsy rope tying them together got entangled with the bodies of the guardsmen. At that moment Indigo raced from the shadows and swung his sword at the guard staring in awe from the rear end of this line of mules.
</p>
<p>
	Johana now stood up and pulled out her steel saber. A mule lay to her right, fallen over a guard. She ran at the mule and cut off the bag on its back. She peers inside and sees, “SEEDS!” As she is looking down at the bag a guardsman from behind tackles her to the ground. “Estan tratando de robar las semillas!” He shouts as he struggles to keep her down. Johana reaches for the sword that had fallen out of her hand from the impact and brings it down upon the man lying atop her. He writhes in pain for a moment before he stops moving. Johana pushes him off and grabs the bag of seeds and looks around. The dock is in utter chaos. She can see Indigo fighting off four guardsmen and can see at least six more coming from the other end of the market. The mules are wildly rampaging and other boatmen from the harbor are drawing their swords.
</p>
<p>
	Indigo ducks a sword swung at his head and thrusts his sword out in front of him stabbing the man in the leg. As his sword pierces the skin on the guard another guard brings down the hilt of his sword on his head. Indigo tumbles over and loses his sword, which is impaled in the guardsman’s leg. He quickly rolls to the left, narrowly dodging another guardsman’s swing. “JOHANA RUN!” He calls out with an animal like vigor, blood pouring from his head. “I’m coming!!” Johana calls as she races toward him. She vaults over mules and toppled men dodging in an out of combat. One hand holding a sac of seeds the other a red stained blade. “NO, RUN!” Indigo calls out again. Now on his feet, he too grabs a sack of seeds and begins to run toward Johana. Johana turns and looks for an exit. She sees the guards who were coming from the market have now reached the dock. Their only way out is through them, for on their other side is simply ocean. She rushes forward using the sac of seeds as cover. As the guards swing and rip into the sac it becomes easier and easier to carry. The seeds are falling out! Johana decides to ditch her sword to ensure they wouldn’t lose any more seeds. She somersaults over a guard and looks back to check on Indigo. As she is turning, one of the oarsmen for another Spanish ship smashes her on the back with a club. She yells in pain as Indigo, who has now caught up, jumps over her falling body and tackles the Spaniard. Johana scrambles to her feet and continues running. “Indigo come on! I See a horse!” The two run crashing through market stalls and well-meaning shoppers before climbing atop a white stallion tied to a small post in the center of the square. Johana hops onto the horse and loads the two sacs of seeds onto its back as Indigo unties it. “INDIGO LOOK OUT!” Johana shrieks. Indigo doesn’t turn and instead finished untying the horse before giving the horse an enormous slap on the back. The horse immediately jolts forward and begins running at full speed. “INDIGO NO!!” Johana calls out as she is slowly getting further from him. At that moment a guardsman slashes at Indigo’s back. A torrent of blood flies into the air and Indigo crumples to the floor. The horse will not turn back no matter how hard Johana tries to cajole it. “…Indigo,” She whimpers.
</p>
